Add Notifications for Required App Support (#1161)
smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution: proposals/NNNN-Addition-of-a-way-to-notify-HMI-of-the-required-support-for-apps.md

> # Addition of the way to notify HMI of the required support for apps

Author: Thank you for your advice.
We think "Add Notifications for Required App Support" is made a sense.
We will modify the title name.
Also, we will change the file name to "NNNN-Add-Notifications-for-Required-App-Support.md".
If you have any problem, please teach us.
Thank you.

> # Addition of the way to notify HMI of the required support for apps

Reviewer: @Akihiro-Miyazaki by changing the file name, I am unable to review the specific changes you've made to the original file. Can you please change the file name back to its original so that I can view the diff to verify that all of my feedback has been addressed?

> # Addition of the way to notify HMI of the required support for apps

Reviewer: Thank you! Please also change the PR name to match the proposal name: Add Notifications for Required App Support

> # Addition of the way to notify HMI of the required support for apps

Author: @theresalech -san,
Thank you for your advice.
We did not know the proposal name can be changed.
We changed the name.
Thank you.

* Proposal: [SDL-NNNN](NNNN-Addition-of-a-way-to-notify-HMI-of-the-required-support-for-apps.md)
* Author: [Akihiro Miyazaki (Nexty)](https://github.com/Akihiro-Miyazaki)
* Status: **Awaiting review**

> * Impacted Platforms: [ Core / Java Suite / HMI / RPC / Protocol ]

Reviewer: I do not see any RPC Spec (MOBILE_API) changes listed within this proposal, only HMI_API changes, which is included in the Core platform. Please add the MOBILE_API changes or remove "RPC" from the `Impacted Platforms` and `Impact on existing code` sections.

If RPC Spec changes are required, note that iOS and JavaScript Suite platforms will also be impacted (see https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution#rpc-spec), and this proposal should be updated accordingly.

Author: We will remove RPC Spec from the `Impacted Platforms` and `Impact on existing code`.

## Introduction

> This proposal is to provide a way to notify HMI of the required support for apps by using the new notification messages. 

Reviewer: While "required app support" makes sense for the proposal title, I think keeping "required support for apps" makes more sense in this context, to clarify that it's support _for_ apps, and not support _provided by_ apps.

> This proposal is to provide a way to notify HMI of the required support for apps by using the new notification messages. 

Author: @theresalech -san,
Thank you for your comment.
We understood.
We reworded "required support for apps" in this context and made a commit them.
Thank you.

## Motivation
If the system does not have something to support required for apps, apps may not work properly or be able to register. For example, in the case of Android OS, if a Media app connects via only USB, since the system cannot establish the audio path, Media app cannot play audio and does not register arbitrarily. At the result, it cannot allow user to know the reason why app cannot be registered. To solve these problems, we propose to add a new notification message to let HMI know the support the SDL app needs. By doing so, this will allow HMI to display the appropriate message and apps connectivity and operability will be improved.

## Proposed solution

> To provide a way to notify HMI of the required support for apps, we will add new notification messages `Request Additional Support` and `Ping Apps` on Protocol spec and new RPCs `RequestAdditionalSupport` and `PingApps` on HMI_API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide a way to notify the HMI of the required support for apps, we will add new notification messages `Request Additional Support` and `Ping Apps` to the Protocol Spec and new RPCs `RequestAdditionalSupport` and `PingApps` to the HMI_API.
```

Reviewer: Same comment as above. Please use "...required support for apps," in this context.

Author: @theresalech -san,
We reworded "required support for apps" in this context and made a commit them.
Thank you.

> #### Protocol Spec

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Protocol Spec
```

The message `Request Additional Support` has two parameters `appName` and `requiredAdditionalSupport`. Also, the message `Ping Apps` has a parameter `appName`. The description of these parameter is shown as below.

> <b>Table 1.</b> Additional Frame Info Definitions on Protocol spec

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<b>Table 1.</b> Additional Frame Info Definitions on Protocol Spec
```

| FRAME INFO VALUE | NAME | DESCRIPTION |
| :- | :- | :- |

> | 0x0a | Request Additional Support | Requests that the additional supports that SDL app needs. |

Reviewer: Please commit this suggestion.

> | 0x0a | Request Additional Support | Requests that the additional supports that SDL app needs. |

Author: @theresalech -san,
We modified to "Requests the additional support that an SDL app needs." and made a commit it.
Thank you.

> | 0x0b | Ping Apps | Acknowledges that SDL app is available the additional supports. |

Reviewer: Can you please reword or provide clarification for this description? I'm unsure of its intended meaning.

Author: What you mean is that you cannot understand the DESCRIPTION of `Request Additional Support` and `Ping Apps` ?
If correct, we will modify the description of `Request Additional Support` to "Requests the required app support" or "Notifies the required app support".
Also, we will modify the description of `Ping Apps` to "Acknowledges the required app support is available" or "Notifies the required app support".
Which description is better?
If our understanding is wrong, could you please teach us the details?

Reviewer: Thank you for the additional information. Please update the `Ping Apps` description to "Notifies the required app of the support available." I've left a separate comment regarding the description for `Request Additional Support`.

Author: @theresalech -san,
We modified to "Notifies the required app of the support available." and made a commit it.
Thank you.

> <b>Table 2.</b> The parameters of `Request Additional Support` on Protocol spec

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<b>Table 2.</b> The parameters of `Request Additional Support` on Protocol Spec
```

| Tag Name | Type | Introduced | Description |
| :- | :- | :- | :- |
| appName | String | 5.5.0 | The name of SDL app that needs the additional supports. |
| requiredAdditionalSupport | String Array | 5.5.0 | An array of the additional suuport names which SDL app needs.<br>- audioSupport<br>- highBandwidth |

Note that the following additional support items are described. 

>  - audioSupport : To add `audioSupport` to the parameter of `requiredAdditionalSupport' if the system does not have the support to play audio when an app that needs to play audio, such as Media app, will be registered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - audioSupport : To add `audioSupport` to the parameter of `requiredAdditionalSupport` if the system does not have the ability to play audio when an app that needs to play audio, such as a Media app, is registered.
```

>  - highBandwidth : To add `highBandwidth` to the parameter of `requiredAdditionalSupport' if the system does not have the support the high band width when an app that needs the video projection, such as Navigation app, will be registered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - highBandwidth : To add `highBandwidth` to the parameter of `requiredAdditionalSupport` if the system does not have the required high bandwidth when an app that needs the video projection, such as a Navigation app, is registered.
```

> It is expandable by adding the string corresponded the additional support that the SDL app needs.

Author: It means "this feature".
Therefore, we will modify to "This feature is expandable by adding the corresponding string for the additional support that the SDL app needs".

> <b>Table 3.</b> The parameters of `Ping Apps` on Protocol spec

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<b>Table 3.</b> The parameters of `Ping Apps` on Protocol Spec
```

| Tag Name | Type | Introduced | Description |
| :- | :- | :- | :- |

> | appName | String | X.X.X.X | The name of SDL app that uses the additional supports. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| appName | String | X.X.X.X | The name of the SDL app that uses the additional support. |
```

> #### HMI_API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### HMI_API
```

> The HMI_API `requestAdditionalSupport` has two parameters `appName` and `requiredAdditionalSupport`. Also, the HMI_API `pingApps` has a parameters `appName`. The description of these parameter is shown as below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HMI_API function `requestAdditionalSupport` has two parameters: `appName` and `requiredAdditionalSupport`. Also, the HMI_API function `pingApps` has a parameter called `appName`. The descriptions of these parameters are shown below.
```

```xml
+   <function name="RequestAdditionalSupport" messagetype="notification">

> +       <description>Notification from SDL to HMI to notify the additional supports that SDL app needs.</description>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+       <description>Notification from SDL to HMI to notify the additional support that the SDL app needs.</description>
```

+       <param name="appName" type="String" maxlength="100" mandatory="true">

> +           <description>The name of SDL app that needs the additional supports.</description>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+           <description>The name of the SDL app that needs the additional support.</description>
```

+       </param>
+       <param name="requiredAdditionalSupport" type="String" minsize="0" maxsize="100" maxlength="100" array="true" mandatory="true">

> +           <description>An array of the additional suuport names which SDL app needs. Ex, audioSupport, highBandwidth.</description>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+           <description>An array of the additional support names which the SDL app needs. For example, `audioSupport` or `highBandwidth`.</description>
```

+       </param>
+   </function>

+   <function name="PingApps" messagetype="notification">

> +       <description>Notification from HMI to SDL to notify that SDL app is available the additional supports.</description>

Reviewer: Can you please reword this description? I'm unclear on its intended meaning.

Author: We will modify to "Notifies from HMI to SDL that the required app support is available".

Reviewer: I've provided a suggested change for this description in a separate comment.

+       <param name="appName" type="String" maxlength="100" mandatory="true">

> +           <description>The name of SDL app that uses the additional supports.</description>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+           <description>The name of the SDL app that uses the additional support.</description>
```

+       </param>
+   </function>
```

> #### Modification of Router Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Modification of Router Service
```

To realize this proposal, it is necessary to modify the Router service as follows.

>  - Receive the `Ping Apps` message from SDL Core at Protocol Spec.

Reviewer: Please reword. I'm unsure what is meant by "...from SDL Core at Protocol Spec."

Author: We will modify to "Receive the Protocol Spec message `Ping Apps`  from SDL Core".

>  - Search the target SDL app that have the name of SDL app stored in the parameter `appName` of `Ping Apps` message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Search for the target SDL app using the `appName` parameter within the `Ping Apps` message.
```

 - Send the `SDL_CONNECTED` message to the target SDL app.

> #### Sequence diagram of the way to notify HMI of the required support for apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sequence diagram of the way to notify HMI of the required support for apps
```

> Figure 1 shows the sequence the way to notify HMI of the required support for apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Figure 1 shows the sequence diagram for notifying the HMI of the required support for apps.
```

<b>Figure 1.</b> Sequence diagram of the way to notify HMI of the required support for apps

![Figure_1_sequence_of_the_way_to_notify_hmi_of_the_support.png](../assets/proposals/NNNN-Addition-of-a-way-to-notify-HMI-of-the-required-support-for-apps/Figure_1_sequence_of_the_way_to_notify_hmi_of_the_support.png)

> The sequence describes as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sequence is described as follows.
```

> 1. SDL app confirms whether to be enough the support that it needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. SDL app confirms whether or not it has the support that it needs.
```

> 2. SDL app sends HU (SDL Core) the `Request Additional Support` message at Protocol spec if the required support is not enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. SDL app sends HU (running SDL Core) the `Request Additional Support` message at Protocol Spec if the required support is not enough.
```
Can you please clarify what you mean by "at Protocol Spec"?

Author: We will modify to "SDL app sends to SDL Core the Protocol Spec message `Request Additional Support` if the required support is not enough".

3. SDL Core sends HMI the RPC `RequestAdditionalSupport`.
4. HMI displays to the user a message that support is enough.

> 5. User meets support according to displayed message.

Reviewer: Please clarify what you mean by "meets support".

Author: "meets support" means to achieve the required support.
Thus, we will modify to "User performs the action to achieve the required support according to displayed message".

> 6. If HMI detected to be met the support, it sends SDL Core the RPC `PingApps`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. If HMI detects that it meets the required support for the app, it sends SDL Core the RPC `PingApps`.
```

> 7. SDL Core sends SDL app (Router service) the `Ping Apps` message at Protocol Spec.

Reviewer: Please reword "...at Protocol Spec."

Author: We will modify to "SDL Core sends Router service in the app library the Protocol Spec message `Ping Apps`".

> 8. SDL app (Router service) searches the target SDL app that have the name of SDL app stored in the parameter `appName` of `Ping Apps` message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. SDL app (Router service) searches for the target SDL app using the parameter `appName` within the `Ping Apps` message.
```

> 9. SDL app (Router service) sends target SDL app the `SDL_CONNECTED` message.

Reviewer: Can you please clarify the meaning of "SDL app (Router service)". These are not the same thing.

Author: "SDL app (Router service)" means the Router service in app library.
Therefore, we will modify like below.
7. SDL Core sends Router service in the app library the Protocol Spec message `Ping Apps`.
8. Router service searches the target SDL app that have the name of SDL app stored in the parameter `appName` of `Ping Apps` message.
9. Router service sends target SDL app the `SDL_CONNECTED` message.

10. SDL app performs the proccess of its registration.

## Potential downsides

> OEM should implement the method to display the message on HMI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OEM should implement the method to display the message on their HMI.
```

## Impact on existing code

> To add new control frame messages and RPC, this proposal affects SDL Core, Java Suite, HMI, Protocol and RPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add new control frame messages and RPCs, this proposal affects SDL Core, Java Suite, HMI, Protocol, and RPC.
```

## Alternatives considered

> None.

Reviewer: It's strongly recommended that you describe alternative approaches for each proposal. If you are unable to do so, please update this section to "The author was unable to consider any alternative approaches."

Author: OK.
We will reword to "The author was unable to consider any alternative approaches".

 - Receive the Protocol Spec message `Ping Apps` from SDL Core.
 - Search for the target SDL app using the `appName` parameter within the `Ping Apps` message.
 - Send the `SDL_CONNECTED` message to the target SDL app.

### Sequence diagram of the way to notify HMI of the required app support
Figure 1 shows the sequence diagram for notifying the HMI of the required app support.

<b>Figure 1.</b> Sequence diagram of the way to notify HMI of the required app support

![Figure_1_sequence_of_Add_Notifications_for_Required_App_Support.png](../assets/proposals/NNNN-Addition-of-a-way-to-notify-HMI-of-the-required-support-for-apps/Figure_1_sequence_of_Add_Notifications_for_Required_App_Support.png)

The sequence is described as follows.
1. SDL app confirms whether or not it has the support that it needs.
2. SDL app sends to SDL Core the Protocol Spec message `Request Additional Support` if the required app support is not enough.
3. SDL Core sends HMI the RPC `RequestAdditionalSupport`.
4. HMI displays to the user a message that support is enough.
5. User performs the action to achieve the required app support according to displayed message.

> 6. If HMI detects that it meets the required app support, it sends SDL Core the RPC `PingApps`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. If the HMI detects that it meets the required support for the app, it sends SDL Core the RPC `PingApps`.
```

> 7. SDL Core sends to the Router service in the app library the Protocol Spec message `Ping Apps`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. SDL Core sends the Protocol Spec message `Ping Apps` to the Router Service in the app library.
```

> 8. The Router service searches the target SDL app that have the name of SDL app stored in the parameter `appName` of `Ping Apps` message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. The Router Service searches for the target SDL app using the parameter `appName` within the `Ping Apps` message.
```

> 9. The Router service sends target SDL app the `SDL_CONNECTED` message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. The Router Service sends the target SDL app the `SDL_CONNECTED` message.
```
